Linux (/ˈliːnʊks/ (listen) LEE-nuuks or /ˈlɪnʊks/ LIN-uuks)[11] is a
family of open-source Unix-like operating systems based on the Linux
kernel,[12] an operating system kernel first released on September 17,
1991, by Linus Torvalds.[13][14][15] Linux is typically packaged in a
Linux distribution.

Distributions include the Linux kernel and supporting system software
and libraries, many of which are provided by the GNU Project. Many
Linux distributions use the word "Linux" in their name, but the Free
Software Foundation uses the name "GNU/Linux" to emphasize the
importance of GNU software, causing some controversy.[16][17]

Popular Linux distributions[18][19][20] include Debian, Fedora Linux,
and Ubuntu, which in itself has many different distributions and
modifications, including Lubuntu and Xubuntu. Commercial distributions
include Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE Linux Enterprise. Desktop
Linux distributions include a windowing system such as X11 or Wayland,
and a desktop environment such as GNOME or KDE Plasma. Distributions
intended for servers may omit graphics altogether, or include a
solution stack such as LAMP. Because Linux is freely redistributable,
anyone may create a distribution for any purpose.[21]

Linux was originally developed for personal computers based on the
Intel x86 architecture, but has since been ported to more platforms
than any other operating system.[22] Because of the dominance of the
Linux-based Android on smartphones, Linux also has the largest
installed base of all general-purpose operating
systems.[23][24][25][26] Although Linux is used by only around 2.3
percent of desktop computers,[27][28] the Chromebook, which runs the
Linux kernel-based Chrome OS, dominates the US K–12 education market
and represents nearly 20 percent of sub-$300 notebook sales in the
US.[29] Linux is the leading operating system on servers (over 96.4%
of the top 1 million web servers' operating systems are Linux),[30]
leads other big iron systems such as mainframe computers, and is the
only OS used on TOP500 supercomputers (since November 2017, having
gradually eliminated all competitors).[31][32][33]

Linux also runs on embedded systems, i.e. devices whose operating
system is typically built into the firmware and is highly tailored to
the system. This includes routers, automation controls, smart home
technology, televisions (Samsung and LG Smart TVs use Tizen and WebOS,
respectively),[34][35][36] automobiles (for example, Tesla, Audi,
Mercedes-Benz, Hyundai, and Toyota all rely on Linux),[37] digital
video recorders, video game consoles, and smartwatches.[38] The Falcon
9's and the Dragon 2's avionics use a customized version of Linux.[39]

Linux is one of the most prominent examples of free and open-source
software collaboration. The source code may be used, modified and
distributed commer
